src/plugins/generic/Readme.md, before:

# Generic plugin

A flexible plugin for combining a generic datasource and a widget. It can be used to display a variety of values from a variety of sources. The data served by the datasource must be made to fit the data expected by the widget.

* Details about all datasources can be found [here](../sources).
* Details about all widgets  can be found [here](../widgets).

## Available widgets and sources
The generic plugin makes it possible to use a wide range of widgets with a set of different datasources. The availabe widgets are:

| Widget type | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| [String](../widgets/string) | Show a string |
| [Number](../widgets/number) | Show a number |
| [Timestamp](../widgets/timestamp) | Show a timestamp | 
| [Checkmark](../widgets/checkmark) | Show a checkmark | 
| [Queue](../widgets/queue) | Show the numbers of messages on a queue (with color coded warning levels) |
| [Pie chart](../widgets/piechart) | Draw a pie chart |
| [Line chart](../widgets/linechart) | Draw a line chart |

The widgets can display data from the following datasources:

| Datasource type | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| [JSON Endpoint](../sources/json-endpoint) | Returns JSON formatted data from an url |
| [Application insights](../sources/appinsights)| Returns data from app insights | 
| [Azure service bus](../soures/azureservicebus) | Returns number of messages on an Azure service bus topic |
| [Google analytics](../sources/google-analytics)| Returns real time data from Google Analytics| 
| [RabbitMQ](../sources/rabbitmq)| Returns number of messaages on a RabbitMq queue| 


## Datasource config

The kind of datasource to use with the generic plugin is specified with the source property in the *dataSourcesConfig*. Configuration for the data source is given in the config property, and will vary depending on the particular data source. For instance, if the data source is a JSON endpoint, the *config* will contain the URL for the endpoint.

```
  plugin: 'generic',
  source: 'json-endpoint',
  config: {
    url: 'http://localhost:8080/endpoint/'
  }
```



## Widget config

For all generic widgets you need to specify the kind of widget to use with the *widgetType* property in the *widgetConfig*. The remaining fields are widget-specific.

```
  plugin: 'generic',
  widgetType: 'queue',
  displayName: 'Something',
  fieldName: 'foo'
```

Commit message:

feature(generic): support for json transform of result before evaluation in widget   also adds Accept: application/json header for json endpoint requests

src/plugins/generic/Readme.md, after:

# Generic plugin

A flexible plugin for combining a generic datasource and a widget. It can be used to display a variety of values from a variety of sources. The data served by the datasource must be made to fit the data expected by the widget.

* Details about all datasources can be found [here](../sources).
* Details about all widgets  can be found [here](../widgets).

## Available widgets and sources
The generic plugin makes it possible to use a wide range of widgets with a set of different datasources. The availabe widgets are:

| Widget type | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| [String](../widgets/string) | Show a string |
| [Number](../widgets/number) | Show a number |
| [Timestamp](../widgets/timestamp) | Show a timestamp | 
| [Checkmark](../widgets/checkmark) | Show a checkmark | 
| [Queue](../widgets/queue) | Show the numbers of messages on a queue (with color coded warning levels) |
| [Pie chart](../widgets/piechart) | Draw a pie chart |
| [Line chart](../widgets/linechart) | Draw a line chart |

The widgets can display data from the following datasources:

| Datasource type | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| [JSON Endpoint](../sources/json-endpoint) | Returns JSON formatted data from an url |
| [Application insights](../sources/appinsights)| Returns data from app insights | 
| [Azure service bus](../soures/azureservicebus) | Returns number of messages on an Azure service bus topic |
| [Google analytics](../sources/google-analytics)| Returns real time data from Google Analytics| 
| [RabbitMQ](../sources/rabbitmq)| Returns number of messaages on a RabbitMq queue| 


## Datasource config

The kind of datasource to use with the generic plugin is specified with the source property in the *dataSourcesConfig*. Configuration for the data source is given in the config property, and will vary depending on the particular data source. For instance, if the data source is a JSON endpoint, the *config* will contain the URL for the endpoint.

```
  plugin: 'generic',
  source: 'json-endpoint',
  config: {
    url: 'http://localhost:8080/endpoint/'
  }
```



## Widget config

For all generic widgets you need to specify the kind of widget to use with the *widgetType* property in the *widgetConfig*. The remaining fields are widget-specific.

```
  plugin: 'generic',
  widgetType: 'queue',
  displayName: 'Something',
  fieldName: 'foo',
  transform: 'return json.count'
```

`transform` lets you specify a javascript transform for the return value from the GET-request. It takes the return value as an input variable named `json`. Leave the `fieldName` out if you want to use the value directly.
